---
title: Spectrum
tags: Product
featured: false
preview: "Spectrum is a headphone entrainment system that guides users to
  improved homeostasis. "
image: /img/foxblur_theworks_headphones_isolated.jpg
---
**Field of Application:** Human Health & Wellbeing 

**Applications:** Acoustic Neurostimulation, Auditory Entrainment, Diagnostics

**Current status:** pre MVP / TRL5 - Partial-scale protoype field demonstration

**Update:** TRL6 - Full-scale prototype field demonstration 

**About:**

Spectrum is a closed headphones system with built-in omnidirectional microphones and audio processing functions. 

A personalized sound experience is provided by real-time capturing of the user’s individual acoustic profile by the microphones \[1] to optimize auditory entrainment through the headphones. This new built-in technology enhances the quality of sound experience and promotes homeostasis in the user, resulting in greater physical and emotional health and resilience. An effective session using Spectrum takes between 25–50 minutes, depending on the intended effect \[2]. 

Effects of sound interventions have been observed relating to effective stress alleviation, regulation of arousal for mood and sleep modulation \[2], promotion of cardiovascular functions and blood cell longevity \[2,3], increased focus, attention, innovative thinking, heightened creativity and improved memory functions, and other reported benefits \[2]. With Spectrum, the benefits of sound intervention become available through the compact format of headphones.

Assessment and monitoring are provided by personal reports accessible through an online app. The reports translate acoustic information captured by the headphones to factors relating to the user’s physical, emotional and mental wellbeing.

**Product Specifications:**

Model: Spectrum v1.0

System items: 

* headphones 
* multicable, 6 mm ⌀, 3 m length
* AD/DA converter
* web-based control and monitoring software app 

System configuration:

* audio I/O: 2/2 channels
* data I/O: 4/3 channels

Durability:

* all parts 100% recyclable

**Background Studies:** 

\[1] [P. Oomen, B. Farran, L. Nadiradze, M. Csanád and A. Val Baker, "Experimental Investigation of Deviations in Sound Reproduction", Acoustics 8, no. 1: 7, 2026.](https://www.mdpi.com/2624-599X/8/1/7)

\[2] [P. Oomen et al., "Psychophysiological effects of low-frequency sound mediated by room size, room shape, and stimulus duration" Front. Cognit. 5:1806052, 2026.](<>) 

\[3] [R. Geffen et al., “Effects of Sound Immersion on In Vitro Blood Cells”, 09-Oct-2023. \[Online]. Available: osf.io/b4gs6](https://osf.io/b4gs6/)

**Patents:** 

[P. Oomen, Entrainment System and Method, WO2025/005790 A1, 2025.](<>)

[P. Oomen, Method for Generating a Reverberation Audio Signal, WO2022/045888 A1, 2022.](<>)

[P. Oomen & R. Geffen, Method and System For Improving a Physiological Condition of a Subject, WO2022/039598 A1, 2022.](<>)

[P. Oomen, Generating an Audio Signal Associated with a Virtual Sound Source, WO2021/118352 A1, 2021.](<>)
